# Simple PHP Basic Crud DApp

This example shows how to build and interact with a minimalistic Cartesi Rollups application. This DApp's back-end is written in PHP.

## Building the environment

To run the php-basic-crud example, clone the repository as follows:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples.git
```

Then, build the back-end for the php-basic-crud example:

```shell
$ cd rollups-examples/php-basic-crud
$ make machine
```

## Running the environment

In order to start the containers in production mode, simply run:

```shell
$ docker-compose up --build
```

_Note:_ If you decide to use [Docker Compose V2](https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command/), make sure you set the [compatibility flag](https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command-compatibility/) when executing the command (e.g., `docker compose --compatibility up`).

Allow some time for the infrastructure to be ready.
How much will depend on your system, but after some time showing the error `"concurrent call in session"`, eventually the container logs will repeatedly show the following:

```shell
server_manager_1      | Received GetVersion
server_manager_1      | Received GetStatus
server_manager_1      |   default_rollups_id
server_manager_1      | Received GetSessionStatus for session default_rollups_id
server_manager_1      |   0
server_manager_1      | Received GetEpochStatus for session default_rollups_id epoch 0
```

To stop the containers, first end the process with `Ctrl + C`.
Then, remove the containers and associated volumes by executing:

```shell
$ docker-compose down -v
```

## Interacting with the application

### CLI way

With the infrastructure in place, go to a separate terminal window and send an input as follows:

Go to https://www.online-toolz.com/tools/decode-hex.php and paste there following json:

```json
{
  "path": "/users",
  "method": "POST",
  "payload": {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "johndoe@example.com"
  }
}
```

Copy hex output and replace phrase `<hex>` in below command.

```shell
$ docker exec php-basic-crud-hardhat npx hardhat --network localhost php-basic-crud:addInput --input "0x<hex>"
```

The input will have been accepted when you receive a response similar to the following one:

```shell
Added input '0x...' to epoch '0' (timestamp: ..., signer: 0x..., tx: 0x...)
```

In order to verify the notices generated by your inputs, run the command:

```shell
$ curl http://localhost:4000/graphql -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{ "query" : "query getNotice { GetNotice( query: { session_id: \"default_rollups_id\", epoch_index: \"0\", input_index: \"0\" } ) { session_id epoch_index input_index notice_index payload } }" }'
```

The response should be something like this:

```shell
{"data":{"GetNotice":[{"session_id":"default_rollups_id","epoch_index":"0","input_index":"0","notice_index":"0","payload":"63617274657369da"}]}}
```

### Built-in PHP proxy server

You can simply use Postman or even curl and send `POST` request to `http://localhost:8000/users` with payload

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "email": "johndoe@example.com"
}
```

## Advancing time

To advance time, in order to simulate the passing of epochs, run:

```shell
$ docker exec echo_hardhat_1 npx hardhat --network localhost util:advanceTime --seconds 864010
```

## Running the environment in host mode

When developing an application, it is often important to easily test and debug it. For that matter, it is possible to run the Cartesi Rollups environment in [host mode](../README.md#host-mode), so that the DApp's back-end can be executed directly on the host machine, allowing it to be debugged using regular development tools such as an IDE.

The first step is to run the environment in host mode using the following command:

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose-host.yml up --build
```
---

The next step is to run the PHP server in your machine. The application is written in PHP, so you need to have `php >=7.4` installed.

In order to start the PHP server, run the following commands in a dedicated terminal:

Change directory to `php-basic-crud/server` and run `php -S 0.0.0.0:5003 -t php`

This will run the php-basic-crud server on port `5003` and send the corresponding notices to port `5004`. The server will also automatically reload if there is a change in the source code, enabling fast development iterations.

The final command, which effectively starts the server, can also be configured in an IDE to allow interactive debugging using features like breakpoints. In that case, it may be interesting to add the parameter `--timeout 0` to gunicorn, to avoid having it time out when the debugger stops at a breakpoint.

After the server successfully starts, it should print an output like the following:

```
[Tue Mar  8 12:08:55 2022] PHP 7.4.27 Development Server (http://0.0.0.0:5003) started
```

After that, you can interact with the application normally [as explained above](#interacting-with-the-application).

Finally, to stop the containers, removing any associated volumes, execute:

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose-host.yml down -v
```
