# Template DApp

Template is a customized DApp written in Python, which originally resembles the one provided by the sample [Echo Python DApp](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/echo-python).
Contrary to that example, this DApp does not use shared resources from the `rollups-examples` main directory, and as such the commands for building, running and deploying it are slightly different.

The documentation below reflects the original application code, and should also be used as a basis for documenting any DApp created with this mechanism.

## Requirements

Please refer to the [rollups-examples requirements](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/README.md#requirements).

## Building

To build the application, run the following command:

```shell
docker buildx bake -f docker-bake.hcl -f docker-bake.override.hcl --load
```

## Running

To start the application, execute the following command:

```shell
docker compose up
```

The application can afterwards be shut down with the following command:

```shell
docker compose down -v
```

## Interacting with the application

We can use the rollups-examples [frontend-console](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/frontend-console) application to interact with the DApp.
Ensure that the [application has already been built](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/frontend-console/README.md#building) before using it.

From within the `frontend-console` directory, you can send an input as follows:

```shell
yarn start input send --payload "Hello there"
```

In order to verify the notices generated by your inputs, run the command:

```shell
yarn start notice list
```

In the example above, the payload of the notice should be `"Hello there"`.

## Deploying to a testnet

Deploying the application to a blockchain requires creating a smart contract on that network, as well as running a validator node for the DApp.

The first step is to build the DApp's back-end machine, which will produce a hash that serves as a unique identifier.

```shell
docker buildx bake -f docker-bake.hcl -f docker-bake.override.hcl machine --load
```

Once the machine docker image is ready, we can use it to deploy a corresponding Rollups smart contract. This requires you to define a few environment variables to specify which network you are deploying to, which account to use, and which RPC gateway to use when submitting the deploy transaction.

```shell
export NETWORK=<network>
export MNEMONIC=<user sequence of twelve words>
export RPC_URL=<https://your.rpc.gateway>
```

For example, to deploy to the Sepolia testnet using an Alchemy RPC node, you could execute:

```shell
export NETWORK=sepolia
export MNEMONIC=<user sequence of twelve words>
export RPC_URL=https://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/<USER_KEY>
```

With that in place, you can submit a deploy transaction to the Cartesi DApp Factory contract on the target network by executing the following command:

```shell
DAPP_NAME=template docker compose -f ./deploy-testnet.yml up
```

This will create a file at `./deployments/<network>/template.json` with the deployed contract's address.
Once the command finishes, it is advisable to stop the docker compose and remove the volumes created when executing it.

```shell
DAPP_NAME=template docker compose -f ./deploy-testnet.yml down -v
```

After that, a corresponding Cartesi Validator Node must also be instantiated in order to interact with the deployed smart contract on the target network and handle the back-end logic of the DApp.

Aside from the environment variables defined above, the node will also need a secure websocket endpoint for the RPC gateway (WSS URL).

For example, for Sepolia and Alchemy, you would set the following additional variable:

```shell
export WSS_URL=wss://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/<USER_KEY>
```

Then, the node itself can be started by running a docker compose as follows:

```shell
DAPP_NAME=template docker compose --env-file ./env.<network> -f ./docker-compose-testnet.yml -f ./docker-compose.override.yml up
```

Which, in the case of Sepolia, would be:

```shell
DAPP_NAME=template docker compose --env-file ./env.sepolia -f ./docker-compose-testnet.yml -f ./docker-compose.override.yml up
```

## Interacting with the deployed application

With the node running, you can interact with the deployed DApp using the [frontend-console](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/frontend-console), as described [previously](#interacting-with-the-application).
This time, however, you need to specify the appropriate connectivity configurations.

First of all, in the separate terminal for the frontend-console, define the `MNEMONIC` and `RPC_URL` variables as before:

```shell
export MNEMONIC=<user sequence of twelve words>
export RPC_URL=<https://your.rpc.gateway>
```

Then, inputs can be sent by specifying the DApp contract's address, as follows:

```shell
yarn start input send --payload "Hello there" --addressFile path/to/template/deployments/<network>/template.json
```

Resulting notices can then be retrieved by querying the local Cartesi Node, as before:

```shell
yarn start notice list
```

## Running the back-end in host mode

When developing an application, it is often important to easily test and debug it. For that matter, it is possible to run the Cartesi Rollups environment in [host mode](https://github.com/cartesi/rollups-examples/tree/main/README.md#host-mode), so that the DApp's back-end can be executed directly on the host machine, allowing it to be debugged using regular development tools such as an IDE.

The host environment can be executed with the following command:

```shell
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml -f docker-compose-host.yml up
```

This DApp's back-end is written in Python, so to run it in your machine you need to have `python3` installed.

In order to start the back-end, run the following commands in a dedicated terminal:

```shell
python3 -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" python3 template.py
```

The final command will effectively run the back-end and send corresponding outputs to port `5004`.
It can optionally be configured in an IDE to allow interactive debugging using features like breakpoints.

You can also use a tool like [entr](https://eradman.com/entrproject/) to restart the back-end automatically when the code changes. For example:

```shell
ls *.py | ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" entr -r python3 template.py
```

After the back-end successfully starts, it should print an output like the following:

```log
INFO:__main__:HTTP rollup_server url is http://127.0.0.1:5004
INFO:__main__:Sending finish
```

After that, you can interact with the application normally [as explained above](#interacting-with-the-application).
